---
template: blog-post
title: What a CSS!!
slug: /font-optimization
date: 2020-09-21 14:42
description: The correct implementation of fonts in your projects can determine
  the success or failure of it. It is important to determine the correct
  deployment of your selected fonts and the speed on which they load in
  browsers. Among the objectives of this blog are to recognized that browsers
  behave differently, learn some tricks to play around them for the optimization
  of fonts on your next CSS project, and Know a little bit of the history of
  font properties in CSS to get you to love it even more.
---


**A Little History.**

To better understand the use and optimization of the font in CSS, we must first understand a little about the history of the font in CSS. Everything has been about the optimization and simplicity of the use of the font. Back in December of 1996 for example the properties "font-family, font style, font-variant, font-weight, font-size and font were defined, which nowadays are used as standard for creating fonts in web pages.

As of November 1997, CSS working draft version began to emerge. For example, in July 2001, the authors of CSS2 wrote the first working draft of the CSS3 font module. Fast forward, by January of 2016 a lot of working draft font version were done, adding or reworking existing font tool properties in CSS. Among them are**, font-variant, font-synthesis, font-family, font-stretch, font-size-adjust**. and others.

One of the things that hasn't changed much, if anything, is color fonts in CSS. font-pallet and @ font-palette-values are the most used to declare colors in CSS-based web pages.

**Different Browsers Different Rules?**

Even the most popular browsers today tend to behave differently from each other. The fact that they are the most popular in use worldwide does not necessarily mean that they have everything optimized, or standardized one to each other, and fonts are not de exception.

FOIT (Flash of Invisible Text) FOIT, for example, is a rule that makes the font on a web page invisible while the web page finishes loading completely. Firefox, Safari, Blackberry, Android browser use this rule, but in different ways. For example, unlike other browsers, Firefox waits for 3 seconds timeout, if it has not loaded by then, Firefox displays a fallback font.

**Tricks For Font Optimization.**

An ideal way to minimizes the hazard of the rules like the one mentioned previously is to optimize your next project by providing web font formats based on browser support. For example, TTF, WOFF, WOFF2, and EOT, are main font formats that you can use to maintain a standard between browsers. These properties can be declared in the **@font-face** declaration in your CSS document.

Here an example:

```
@font-face {
  font-family: 'Open Sans';
  src: local('Open Sans'), local('OpenSans'),
       url('fonts/open-sans.woff2') format('woff2'),
       url('fonts/open-sans.woff') format('woff');
}

```

Additionally, CSS can help you to optimize your fonts by using the **text-rendering** property. This property in CSS helps to determine to the browser (depending on the resources available on the machine where the web page is intent to be load) the best possible resolution available to display without giving up the speed with which it loads.